S3 buckets are uniquely named for all accounts for aws. It is a key value store. 

If you put a new file on S3 you can immedialtely read it, If you update or delete a file, it can take a while to propgate.

S3 standard, S3 infrequent Access, S3 one zone IA, S3 intelligent tiring, S3 glacier, S3 glacier Deep archieve, S3 outposts.

S3 transfer acceleration enables secure and fast file transfer between users and S3 bucket. It does using Cloudfront's globally distributed edge locations

File cannot be more than 5TB, you can log S3 using cloudtrail

Cloudwatch can be used to view performance metrics.

Cross region replication means when a file is uploaded to an s3 bucket it will be replicated to a secondary S3 bucket in another region.

S3 is heavily used by enterprises, its main goal is storage, infinte storage as AWS calls it. S3 allows to store objects (files) into buckets (directories), buckets must have unique name regionally.
Buckets are defined at the regional level. While buckets maybe viewable globally, it is still tied regionally.

S3 objects(file) must have a key, that is the full path to the object. max size for an object size is 5tb but you can't upload more than 5gb at a time. must use multi part upload. You can add meta data and tags to the objects. You can also do version control on the these objects.
Bucket names are like username on a site, if anyone has taken it already you cant use it 
S3 versioning means when you upload an object with the same key, it doesn't override it create a version of it, this feature has to be enabled at bucket level, it also has a delete marker.

You can also encrypt S3 objects. there are 4 types 
SSE-S3 uses keys handled and managed by awss3AES-256 and object is encrypted server side. must set header z-amz-server-side-encryption: AES256
SSE-KMS (key  managed service) gives you control over who has the keys and audit trail, also enctypted server side
must set header z-amz-server-side-encryption: awskms
SSE-C is also server side encryption using keys provided by customer to aws, aws doesnt store the key provided. must use https, key should be provided in http header as it will be discared after storing objects, 
last client encryption you encrpyt before uploading to s3 and decrypt it yourself too, you can use a tool like s3 encrpytion client for it.
S3 security can be user IAM based or resource based. 
bucket policies are json based and allow or deny access to resouces such as bucket or object.

S3 can also host static websites on www and the website URL can be based on bucketname, just upload the index.html to s3 bucket and upload it to directory, to get access change bucket policy and bucket security.
CORS cross origin resource sharing, access-control-allow-origin

in S3 does cross origin in S3 we need to provide the correct headers so we can allow data from different buckets to static sites.


